# Qualification Test for Clepher

## Usage
To run the local dev build you can use the start script, e.g. `yarn start`.\
To build the project, you can use e.g. `yarn build`.\
Then any static server can be used to serve the project. Since this is an SPA, all routes have to be forwarded to index.html, e.g. `npx http-server -P http://localhost:8080?`.

## Chosen API rationale
I've chosen the following endpoint for implementing a chart that shows historical month by month data of currency exchange rates:
https://www.alphavantage.co/documentation/#fx-monthly \
I've chosen example EUR to USD and MDL (Moldovan Lei) to USD pairs to demonstrate capabilities of the application.

## Note on API rate limits
The free version of the provided API has a rather restrictive rate limit of 25 requests per day. That is why I am using localstorage to keep fetched data locally. This is mostly done for development purposes, since in a real app the data received from the API would probably be buffered on application's backend.

In `src\hooks\useForexData.ts`:
```js
// use local copy, as free API keys are limited to 25 requests per day
if (localCopy) {
    setData(JSON.parse(localCopy));
    return;
}
// fetch the actual data
fetch(url, { headers: { 'User-Agent': 'request' } })
...
```

## Overview
This app uses a boilerplate generated by create-react-app. It also uses Tailwind CSS for layout and apexcharts to render historical currency exchange data. I implemented 2 pages - a home page with a hero section, and a forex page that actually renders the data received from the API. 

## CSS
This is a zero CSS application. As asked in the email message, I've used Tailwind CSS and ended up not needing any custom CSS since I didn't need to implement a custom design, however, I also have extensive experience using CSS to implement custom components as specified by a design team.  

## Testing
I've also included a couple of tests to make sure some of the intended content gets rendered.  